JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Republicans roll
out a new health care plan to
upend the Affordable
Care Act.
A look at how the new bill aims
to replace
President Obama's signature law.
Also ahead this Tuesday:
WikiLeaks releases
thousands of CIA documents
claiming to reveal
the agency's hacking tools.
And we talk with the creators of
"The Americans"
about how the TV series
centering on Russian
spies in the United States back
in the '80s
is more current than ever.
JOEL FIELDS, Executive Producer,
"The Americans":
What better time to humanize
Russian espionage
than the time that we're the
victims of it?
You know, that's the time when
you're most
inclined to dehumanize it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The battle over
the Affordable
Care Act, or Obamacare, is now
joined in earnest.
Republicans in the House of
Representatives
pressed forward today, in the
face of resistance
from Democrats and from inside
their own party.
Lisa Desjardins reports from
Capitol Hill.
LISA DESJARDINS: It was day one
of Republicans'
push to sell their long-awaited
replacement
plan for the Affordable Care
Act, or Obamacare.
Greg Walden chairs the Energy
and Commerce
Committee and helped author the
bill.
REP.
GREG WALDEN (R), Oregon:
Introduction of this
bill is just the first step in
helping American
families across the country
obtain truly affordable
health care and we're eager to
get started.
MAN: I encourage you to read the
bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: Named the
American Health
Care Act, Republicans are
keeping some and
changing some of the Affordable
Care Act.
The first big change?
Medicaid.
Obamacare expanded Medicaid to
include roughly
12 million more people,
lower-income adults.
Republicans would end that
expansion in 2020,
but allow those enrolled at that
time to stay
on Medicaid.
For the rest of Medicaid, some
55 million
people, there is potentially
sweeping change.
Republicans would move from
paying for all
health care costs now to setting
a limit on
spending per person.
Democrats like Kentucky
Congressman John Yarmuth
are outraged, saying that will
cut benefits
to millions.
REP.
JOHN YARMUTH (D), Kentucky: Over
the long
term, what it's going to mean
is, the people
who need the care the most,
people who are
working hard and need the
coverage, will get
less of it, and the states will
have to shoulder
more of the burden.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Republican
leaders mounted
an all-out offensive, with Vice
President
Mike Pence visiting senators at
the Capitol,
and President Trump meeting with
House leaders
at the White House.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I think, really, we're going to
have something
that's much more understood and
much more
popular than people can even
imagine.
LISA DESJARDINS: The largest
issue for the
Republican bill is what we don't
know.
We don't yet know if this bill
will mean fewer
people with health insurance.
We also don't know how much
anything will
cost, including new tax credits.
Those tax credits are another
big issue and
change.
The Affordable Care Act gives
direct tax subsidies
for low- and middle-income
Americans.
Republicans would instead give
refundable
tax credits and rework who gets
them.
Individuals making under $75,000
would get
a full credit based on age,
$2,000 dollars
for the youngest, increasing to
$4,000 for
those over 60.
But those tax credits are
raising concern
from the right.
Republican Congressman Dave Brat
says the
credits are more massive
government spending.
REP.
DAVE BRAT (R), Virginia: Where
is it coming
from?
It's coming from the federal
government.
And it's a new entitlement
program.
And so for the folks out there,
they may not
know -- go Google it -- we have
a $100 trillion
entitlement problem.
LISA DESJARDINS: He's not alone.
Republican Congressman Justin
Amash called
the bill Obamacare 2.0 in a
tweet.
And Kentucky Senator Rand Paul
and other Republicans
held a news conference to push
back.
SEN.
RAND PAUL (R), Kentucky: We are
united on
repeal.
But we are divided on
replacement.
LISA DESJARDINS: That could be a
serious issue
in the Senate, where the GOP can
afford to
lose only two votes and still
pass their bill
without help from Democrats.
But, as some raised doubts,
others in the
party moved to Answer them, like
Health and
Human Services Secretary Tom
Price.
TOM PRICE, U.S. Health and Human
Services
Secretary: This is all about
patients, and
in order to provide that
transition and in
order to make it so that nobody
falls through
the cracks, we have got to have
a system that
allows for individuals to gain
the kind of
coverage that they want.
LISA DESJARDINS: And House
Speaker Paul Ryan
insisted that the bill will get
the votes
it needs in the House.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker of the
House: We
will have 218 when this comes to
the floor.
I can guarantee you that.
LISA DESJARDINS: Tomorrow, day
two, may be
more important, as the bill
heads to possible
committee votes.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins
at the Capitol.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
nominee for the number two
position at the
Justice Department faced close
questioning
about investigating Russian
meddling in the
2016 election.
Rod Rosenstein would oversee the
probe if
he is confirmed.
That is because Attorney General
Jeff Sessions
recused himself last week.
At his Senate confirmation
hearing, Rosenstein
fended off Democrats urging that
he recuse
himself, too, and appoint a
special outside
counselor.
ROD ROSENSTEIN, Deputy Attorney
General Nominee:
I know this is the issue du jour
on Capitol
Hill.
But I anticipate that, if I were
the deputy
attorney general, we'd have a
lot of matters
coming before the department
over time, and
I would approach them all the
same way.
I would evaluate the facts and
the law, consider
the applicable regulations,
consult with career
professionals in the department,
and then
exercise my best judgment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At least one
Democrat, Connecticut's
Richard Blumenthal, said that he
will try
to block the Rosenstein
nomination unless
he does commit to a special
counsel.
New threats at Jewish Community
Centers and
the Anti-Defamation League
today.
Phoned-in claims of bombs and
even a sniper
came in at least eight cities.
In response, all 100 U.S.
senators wrote to
the FBI and the Departments of
Justice and
Homeland Security.
They said -- quote -- "Failure
to address
these and deter these threats
will place innocent
people at risk."
A federal judge has refused to
stop completion
of the Dakota Access oil
pipeline, as American
Indian tribes wanted.
Today's ruling coincided with
the start of
a four-day protest on the
National Mall.
It will culminate in a march on
the White
House.
The court fight will continue,
but the pipeline
builders say the oil could begin
flowing next
week.
Emergency crews struggled today
to contain
fast-moving wildfires that have
killed six
people in four states.
The fires are sweeping across
hundreds of
square miles in Kansas,
Oklahoma, Texas, and
Colorado.
They have already forced more
than 10,000
people to flee.
Elsewhere, hundreds of homes
were damaged
overnight by severe storms
across the Midwest.
More than 30 twisters were
reported in Kansas,
Missouri, Iowa and Illinois.
DUANE COFFEY, Storm Victim:
We're lucky.
Small children and two adults,
they were scared.
Everybody was scared, but we
stuck together
and made it through it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This afternoon,
the governor
of Missouri declared a state of
emergency
in the wake of the storms.
U.S.-backed forces scored gains
against Islamic
State fighters on two fronts
today.
In Syria, militia groups cut a
main road out
of Raqqa, the de facto ISIS
capital.
And, in Iraq, army units pushed
deeper into
Western Mosul after a late-night
commando
raid.
The troops battled into a
complex of government
buildings.
That sets up an assault on
Mosul's Old City,
where militants are dug in with
thousands
of civilians.
The European Union's top court
ruled today
that member states do not have
to grant humanitarian
visas to asylum seekers.
Belgium and other countries had
warned that
it would mean another flood of
migrants.
Meanwhile, Hungary's Parliament
voted to confine
migrants at border camps built
from shipping
containers, pending action on
their asylum
requests.
A Chinese telecom firm has
agreed to pay nearly
$900 million for violating U.S.
sanctions.
The Justice Department says ZTE
Corporation
illegally shipped American-made
equipment
to Iran and North Korea.
On Wall Street, stocks slipped
for the third
time in four days.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 29 points
to close at 20924.
The Nasdaq fell 15 points, and
the S&P 500
gave up nearly seven.
And the White House is receiving
visitors
again.
Tours resumed today for the
first time since
the inauguration, and the first
group got
a presidential welcome.
Mr. Trump greeted a crowd that
included Alabama
fifth graders on a school trip.
Prominent in the background, a
portrait of
former first lady Hillary
Clinton, his election
rival.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
a Republican
senator weighs in on the ongoing
Russia investigation;
WikiLeaks documents show CIA
efforts to hack
into phones, TVs and cars; the
military's
model pre-K program; and much
more.
Now let's go back to the big
debate emerging
over the health care law, and
explore some
of the key ideas behind the
Republicans' plans.
The House bill does keep some of
the most
popular provisions of the law,
like preventing
insurers from denying coverage
for preexisting
conditions.
It still has penalties for a
lapse in coverage,
but it doesn't mandate coverage
in the same
way.
It also shifts how the
government would provide
financial help, while eventually
reducing
the number of people on
Medicaid.
John Yang picks it up from
there.
JOHN YANG: To help break down
the impact of
these proposed changes, I'm
joined by two
experts who watch health care
closely.
Lanhee Chen is a fellow at the
Hoover Institution
who advised Mitt Romney and
Marco Rubio in
their presidential campaigns.
And Sabrina Corlette is a
professor at Georgetown
University's Health Care Policy
Institute.
Thank you for joining us to you
both.
Welcome to you both.
I think you can both agree that,
as this moves
through the legislative process,
the details
will change, but I think the
philosophical
changes in direction are clear
now.
Lanhee Chen, let me start with
you.
This shifts -- what we're seeing
proposed
is to shift from requiring that
everyone have
insurance, to have a series of
carrots, really,
to get people to buy insurance
themselves
on the open market.
Why is that the better approach?
LANHEE CHEN, Former Policy
Director, Mitt
Romney Campaign: Well, one of
the issues,
frankly, with the Affordable
Care Act is that
you had situations where
insurance was become
unaffordable.
In fact, if you look at 2015 as
an example,
19.2 million Americans either
could not afford
health insurance because they
got what was
known as a hardship exemption,
or they paid
the penalty relating to
Obamacare's individual
mandate.
So one of the things that this
tries to do
is to encourage the purchase of
insurance,
but, as you say, to do it as an
encouragement,
rather than as a penalty.
Now, where a penalty does apply
is when an
individual doesn't make the
decision to acquire
coverage and that coverage
lapses, and then
they would be subject to a
penalty to get
back into the system.
But the approach, as you note,
is fundamentally
different.
JOHN YANG: But, Lanhee, how does
this -- how
does this move premiums down?
LANHEE CHEN: Well, I think
there's a couple
of things.
First of all, the idea is to
create marketplaces
that are healthier by providing
more competition
and a greater choice of plans.
Now, obviously, this provision
alone doesn't
do that, but the idea behind the
Republican
approach is to move in that
direction.
Now, some of that lowering of
costs is constrained
in this piece of legislation
because it has
to comply with this budgetary
oddity known
as reconciliation.
But, overall, the Republican
strategy is to
lower costs by expanding choice
and reducing
the number of mandates on plans.
JOHN YANG: Sabrina Corlette, is
that effective?
Is that going to work?
SABRINA CORLETTE, Center on
Health Insurance
Reforms, Georgetown University:
Well, here's
one of those things where
details really do
matter.
And, in fact, I would argue that
this requirement
they have in there that is an
attempt to replace
the ACA's individual mandate
will actually
drive premiums up, because I
think more young
people will look at that and
say, I'm not
going to face a penalty if I
don't sign up
for coverage, so I'm going to
hold off on
buying insurance.
And so the only people buying
insurance will
be those who are sick.
And if insurers have to just
cover sick people,
they will raise premiums, and
those will go
up.
JOHN YANG: Lanhee Chen, that
gets to a point
that many critics are saying,
that the federal
help to buy for these insurance
premiums favors,
they say, the young and the
healthy over the
sick and the old.
What do you say to that?
LANHEE CHEN: Well, I have a
tough time with
that argument, John, frankly,
because, first
of all, the tax credits in the
Republican
plan are based, first of all, on
age.
That is the primary factor on
which they're
differentiated.
Therefore, those who are older
will get more
assistance than those who are
younger.
Furthermore, the broader idea
here is to lower
the cost of plans to get more
people in.
It is the case in the previous
regime, under
Obamacare, that you did have
fewer people
in the marketplace because
premiums were increasing,
for example, from 2015 to 2016
by an average
of 25 percent.
So, the goal here, again,
lowering the cost
of plans, so that the help that
is provided
by the government will buy more
coverage.
That is the idea and the concept
behind the
Republican proposal.
JOHN YANG: Sabrina Corlette,
he's correct
that the tax breaks go up with
age, but, also,
it allows the insurance
companies to charge
much higher premiums for older
insured people.
SABRINA CORLETTE: Right, right.
So, this bill would allow
insurance companies
to charge older people up to
five times the
amount of a younger person.
But the tax credits only go up
two times.
So, you're essentially handing
an older person
a two-foot rope to get
themselves out of a
10-foot hole.
The other thing is that,
overall, the tax
subsidies are much less generous
than they
are under the Affordable Care
Act.
And they're not income-related.
So lower-income people get less,
relative
to their income, and many of
them will not
be able to afford this coverage.
We don't have numbers yet from
the Congressional
Budget Office about how many
people will end
up losing coverage.
But we do have numbers that --
from Wall Street
analysts that estimate up to 10
million people
will lose coverage under this
bill.
JOHN YANG: Lanhee Chen, how do
you respond
to that, about the number of
people who will
go uncovered by this?
LANHEE CHEN: I think there are a
couple of
things.
We will have to wait and see
what the Congressional
Budget Office ends up deciding
on this.
But it is the case, first of
all, that the
Republican philosophy, the
conservative philosophy
has always been that you expand
access by
lowering costs.
So it is the case that if you
are able to
get some of these regulation out
of the way
-- now, granted, the House bill
doesn't actually
do a lot of that, because,
again, it has to
comply with these arcane
budgetary rules.
But were there to be
legislation, let's say,
in phase two, as Donald Trump
says, of health
reform that got these
regulations out of the
way, the idea would be to lower
the cost of
plans, to expand access, and
therefore affect
that number of uninsured.
Another thing they could do,
briefly, is,
they could look at trying to
create a steeper
means test on the tax credits,
such that poorer
people would benefit more than
they do under
the current proposal.
JOHN YANG: Lanhee Chen, what do
you say to
the conservatives who worry that
these tax
credits are essentially a new
entitlement?
LANHEE CHEN: Well, I would make
a couple of
arguments.
First of all, we already have a
tax code that
subsidizes health care, largely
through the
purchase of health insurance
through your
employer; 160 million Americans
take advantage
of this tax break already.
What Republicans are trying to
do with this
proposal is to equalize, to a
certain degree,
the treatment of health
insurance purchased
individually vs. through
employers.
And I would also say that it's
just a reality
that we have got to deal with
questions of
coverage.
And if you don't help people who
are outside
of the employer marketplace, you
are going
to see even more significant
degradations
in coverage.
So this is an important step
forward in that
regard.
JOHN YANG: And then, finally,
Sabrina Corlette,
what's your view on the changes
that are coming
in Medicaid, or would be coming
in Medicaid
if this plan is passed?
SABRINA CORLETTE: Well, this is
one thing
that I think is really important
for people
to know, is that this bill goes
way beyond
repealing the ACA's Medicaid
expansion.
This really is a radical
restructuring of
a program that's been around for
50 years.
It's a financial lifeline for
not just low-income
families, but families who have
people with
-- kids with disabilities, older
people who
need long-term care.
Close to 50 percent of births in
this country
are funded by the Medicaid
program.
So we are looking at potentially
cutting this
program that will affect far
beyond the people
just that got coverage through
the ACA.
JOHN YANG: Sabrina Corlette,
Lanhee Chen,
thank you very much.
LANHEE CHEN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Today, the
chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee
announced that
the first public hearing on the
investigation
into Russian interference in the
election
would begin on March 20.
At the same time, Democrats in
the Senate
are calling for a special
counsel to investigate.
We have heard recently from
Democrats on the
Senate Intelligence Committee.
Tonight, we turn to a
Republican.
He is Senator James Lankford of
Oklahoma.
Senator Lankford, thank you very
much for
being with us.
So, the House committee has
announced when
its hearing beginnings.
What about the Senate?
Is the House going to go first?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD (R), OKLAHOMA:
Well, the House
was doing an open meeting there.
We have actually done hearings
for several
months now behind closed doors,
as most of
the Intelligence hearings are
held.
These are dealing with highly
classified documents,
procedures, people, that remain
classified
and should remain classified.
So a lot of work will be held
behind closed
doors, quite frankly.
And then we will actually bring
things out
when it's appropriate and when
we have actually
some things to be able to
contribute to the
national conversation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you
subpoenaing witnesses?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: We are working
through the
process of getting witnesses.
I'm not going to say whether we
have to subpoena
any of them at this point.
But I would say the witnesses
that we have
asked for, we have been able to
get access
to without having to do a
subpoena.
But we will work through that
process.
This is very similar.
I know you will remember, in
December, President
Obama in his press conference
was asked about
the administration investigation
into all
this process, and he said at
that time, in
December, the American people
are going to
be somewhat frustrated by an
investigation
that deals with intelligence,
because we can't
put out all the sources and
methods.
We want to still be able to
guard what we're
doing in foreign intelligence in
the days
ahead.
So, we will put out what we can
possibly put
out, but a lot of the work will
be very quiet.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think it
is a good idea
to look at President Trump's tax
records in
order to get an understanding of
his possible
business connections with
Russia?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: So, that's been
an accusation
that has sat out there, but it
has had no
validity.
I have yet to have anyone who
has been able
to point to anything, because
the description
there is that he had some sort
of secret business
dealings with Russia.
No one has stepped forward to be
able to actually
make that accusation.
Typically, it's people saying,
hey, we want
to go search.
We want to go look.
And I know that there are people
that are
frustrated that he didn't put
his tax records
out.
And so I think this is kind of
their vehicle
to get it and then hopefully to
be able to
-- once they get it in their
hands, to be
able to slip it out into the
media at some
point and leak it out.
But, right now, there's no
reason to even
go do that.
And there's a constitutional
issue between
the Congress reaching to a
sitting president
and requiring him to turn over
personal documents.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
saying, at this
point, you and others, the
majority on the
committee, assume the tax
records are not
relevant?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Yes, I have yet
to see anything
that would say those are
relevant.
Now, there are a lot of issues
we have got
to delve into, but I have not
seen that that's
a relevant document for us to
get.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump,
in connection
with all this, tweeted over the
weekend that
President Obama ordered a
wiretap of him during
the campaign in his offices in
New York.
He suggests that he has evidence
of this.
Are you aware of any evidence of
that?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: I would just say
to the White
House, if they have evidence of
that, they
can turn that over to our
committee and we
will follow that up as part of
our ongoing
evaluation.
But that would be something the
president
should turn over to Congress as
we're walking
through our investigation
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you take the
president at
his word, then, that there is
indeed evidence?
Because -- I'm asking because
the president
has in turn called on Congress
to investigate
this.
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Well, it would
help, obviously,
if the White House turned those
document over,
so we could include that into
our investigation.
We're walking through a very
thorough process,
multiple different agencies in
an extremely
bipartisan way.
The Intelligence Committee is
not a partisan
committee.
We work behind closed doors.
It's not showboating.
We're not trying to actually get
some kind
of leverage.
This is a national security
issue.
And this is an issue we dealt
with, with Russia
for decades.
They have tried to manipulate
elections all
around the world.
They go back in the United
States as far as
putting a KGB person onto
President Carter's
campaign decades ago.
But they have never done it so
overt and so
aggressive as they did this
time.
So it is to our national benefit
to get this
right and to be able to have a
good investigation,
because this is not a partisan
issue.
This is a security issue for a
very long time,
and we have got to address it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, have you
asked the White
House to turn such evidence over
to the committee?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Yes, I would say
what you
and I have just talked about
before, I have
said plenty of places publicly.
I won't say what we have done
privately.
How about that?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think it
was appropriate
for President Trump to say this
without providing
that evidence?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: I think it's
difficult to
say that, because the natural
question from
every one of the American people
is, really,
when did that happen?
How did that happen?
And I think it's something the
president is
going to have to address in the
days ahead.
But I will allow the White House
to be able
to respond to that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, there is
a new story
today you're aware of, WikiLeaks
releasing
thousands of pages of these
documents which
we're only beginning, really, to
see what's
in that material, looking at
what the CIA's
methods are for hacking,
allegedly hacking,
into everything from iPhones to
cars, televisions.
What do you know about that?
And how serious a security
breach could this
be?
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: So, let me give
you a series
of things to this.
WikiLeaks is not saying where
they got it.
They are just saying that they
have this information
and that it was out there.
I would remind people there's a
tremendous
amount of fake news out there.
I'm not making an accusation
here, but there
is quite a bit out there that
people create,
being able to release out and to
say this
looks genuine and so we will put
this out.
Quite a few of these documents
like this,
we get a chance to look at later
and find
out they're really not genuine
after all.
So, I would caution people first
to be able
to jump to conclusions of this.
Second, when we deal with any
kind of what
is actually an intelligence
process, any time
anyone, WikiLeaks or anyone
else, releases
out, gets access to this, it
does two things.
It always asks the question of,
how did it
come from, where did it come
from at any point,
if it's proved to be genuine?
That has to be corrected.
The second part of it is, it
means that any
adversary out there anywhere in
the world,
whether it be any government,
whether it be
any terrorist organization
suddenly gets information.
That is toxic to the American
people.
The folks in the intelligence
community are
not targeting American citizens.
There are very strict, clear
laws that protect
U.S. persons from anyone in the
intelligence.
But I would be very frank with
you.
We are very aggressive to try to
get information
about terrorist organizations,
foreign entities
that mean to do us harm.
And I'm glad that we do.
If someone means to do harm to
the United
States, to any United States
citizen, we should
try to find out first, rather
than react to
it after the fact.
And people who try to release
out any methods
that are out there are damaging
the national
security of the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator James
Lankford, Republican
on the Senate Intelligence
Committee, we thank
you.
SEN.
JAMES LANKFORD: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As we just
discussed, WikiLeaks
today did publish thousands of
pages of what
it says are files about the CIA
and its hacking
activities.
Jeffrey Brown has our further
look.
JEFFREY BROWN: The material
comes from the
CIA's Center for Cyber
Intelligence.
It includes a range of documents
from 2013
to 2016 which describe
cyber-tools for hacking
cell phones, computers,
television, and even
vehicles.
The documents also contain
computer code.
One program, dubbed Weeping
Angel, entails
infecting Samsung smart TVs,
turning them
into bugging devices.
Another program is aimed at
hacking Apple
and Android cell phones,
undercutting encryption
on services like WhatsApp,
Signal, and Telegram.
WikiLeaks also says these
documents show that
when the CIA discovered flaws in
computer
code written by Apple, Google or
Samsung,
it failed to notify those
companies about
the vulnerabilities to allow
fixes to be made.
Mark Mazzetti of The New York
Times has been
covering this, and joins us now.
Mark, welcome to you.
So, the CIA hasn't said much so
far.
What do we know about the
authenticity of
the documents and where they
came from?
MARK MAZZETTI, The New York
Times: Well, we're
still trying to confirm the
authenticity.
We have several people we have
spoken to today
who say they believe they're
authentic.
We have heard nothing thus far
from the government
indicating that they are not.
Some people we have spoken to
have said that
some of the code names that were
cited in
the documents are, indeed,
legitimate.
So it does appear at the moment
-- and I should
say at the moment -- that they
are legitimate.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, when you
look at the
totality, Mark, of all of these
cyber-tools
that being described, help us
understand,
what are they aimed at?
What is this program about?
MARK MAZZETTI: Well, they're a
series of -- and
we're talking about thousands of
documents
that are laying out some of the
tools the
CIA allegedly has to carry out
hacking of
any number of different devices,
as you said,
cars, against foreign
adversaries or people
overseas.
I should stress that there is --
unlike the
Snowden disclosures, there were
not specific
mentions of where these have
been used.
But they're more sort of like
the toolkit
the CIA has.
And it's pretty expansive, if
the documents
are to be believed.
And in terms of where they came
from, you
asked.
I mean, that's another thing
we're still trying
to figure out.
WikiLeaks said today that they
had a source
come to them who was concerned
about the use
of these tools.
We don't know anything about the
source.
And there's a lot of questions
still at the
moment.
JEFFREY BROWN: WikiLeaks said
that it had
redacted some names and some
information in
its release.
But how potentially damaging is
this to the
CIA?
MARK MAZZETTI: Well, again, if
they're confirmed
to be true, any revelations
about actual capabilities
that the CIA or any other
intelligence agency
has would limit the ability of
the agency
to continue to do those
activities.
You saw that to a degree with
Snowden and
others.
And so that is where the concern
is, that
you will have a lot of -- these
tools may
not be used because they're now
revealed.
But, again, we have to -- we
still have to
report out exactly, you know,
what has been
used and, to a large extent, how
much of this
is actual truth.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, and I
realize so much
of that is going on.
I mentioned one particular
program, which
is the Weeping Angel, using
Samsung smart
televisions as covert listening
devices.
But that's one concrete example
that's come
out today.
MARK MAZZETTI: Yes.
And the -- in a nutshell, the
idea was that
the Samsung smart TVs have a
feature that
allowed access to the Internet,
and by having
this -- you're basically turning
this smart
feature on.
The CIA is turning it into a
microphone and
allowing eavesdropping in a
home.
And another thing you cited was
questions
about the ability of the
agency's hackers
to sort of sort of bypass
traditional encryption
and very popular encryption
software like
Signal or WhatsApp.
The idea is not that the
programs themselves
are hacked or compromised.
It's that, if you're in the
phone, if the
CIA were to be in the phone,
they would be
able to get the data before it
was then encrypted
by these applications.
JEFFREY BROWN: And just, Mark,
in 10 seconds,
in a word here, so much of the
attention has
been on the NSA programs in the
past.
Is it a surprise to learn that
the CIA may
have its own program?
MARK MAZZETTI: Well, it's pretty
well known
that the CIA has been building
up this capability
and are determined to because
they see computer
hacking and computer
cyber-warfare as the
future.
So, they are very much in that
game.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Mark
Mazzetti of
The New York Times, thank you
very much.
MARK MAZZETTI: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How child care
for the U.S.
military families came to be
among the best
in the country.
It now serves an estimated
200,000 children.
The average service member
spends about 9
percent of their income on child
care.
The average civilian spends 25
percent.
Special correspondent Kavitha
Cardoza with
our partner Education Week
traveled to North
Carolina to see what the
civilian sector can
learn for our weekly series
Making the Grade.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Discipline,
strength, endurance,
traits that define the Marine
Corps.
They're also known for babies?
MARLA TALLEY, Child Care Worker:
Marines do
two things really, really,
really well.
They shoot their guns, and they
make a lot
of babies.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: At Camp
Lejeune, North Carolina,
Marla Talley oversees the child
care centers.
MARLA TALLEY: We usually see a
great increase
in our request for infant care
nine months
after a unit comes back from a
deployment.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Camp Lejeune is
one of the
country's largest Marine Corps
installations,
seven times the size of
Manhattan.
The child development centers,
or CDCs, can
accommodate 1,800 children under
the age of
5.
COL.
MICHAEL SCALISE, U.S. Marine
Corps: Everything
that we do as Marines is linked
with readiness.
CDCS are a part of that.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Colonel Michael
Scalise is
deputy commander.
COL.
MICHAEL SCALISE: When you think
in terms of
a Marine that is focused, he's
focused on
training, he's focused on
deploying.
Anything that he has to worry
about, from
his family's standpoint, whether
that's his
children or his spouse, or her
children or
spouse, deviate from that
Marine's ability
to focus.
STAFF SGT.
KATHLEEN HARGROVE, U.S. Marine
Corps: I start
my day at 05:45 at the barracks,
which means
I have to drop Annabelle off at
day care no
later than 5:30.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Staff Sergeant
Kathleen Hargrove
is a single mother.
STAFF SGT.
KATHLEEN HARGROVE: I can't
really use excuses
to be late in the Marine Corps.
That's not an acceptable answer.
They expect you to be there when
you're told
to be.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Across all
branches of service,
members of the U.S. military
have about two
million children, more than 40
percent of
them under the age of 5.
But child care in the military
hasn't always
been this good.
DEBORAH PHILLIPS, Georgetown
University: In
the '70s, the military child
care system was
really a system in crisis.
There were very few inspections
done of the
program, so even basic safety
and health wasn't
protected.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Deborah
Phillips is a professor
of psychology at Georgetown
University.
DEBORAH PHILLIPS: The child care
teachers
in the military, child care
centers were paid
on a par with the garbage
collectors in the
military system.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: The dismal
state of child
care led to congressional
hearings, and eventually
the child care budget increased
62 percent.
Barbara Thompson recently
retired from the
Pentagon as director of military
family readiness.
BARBARA THOMPSON, Retired
Pentagon Director
of Military Family Readiness:
That was earth-shattering,
I would say, for those of us in
the military
child development system.
It gave us the opportunity to
hire training
and curriculum specialists.
It provided federal dollars, so
that the cost
of care would be subsidized by
the federal
government.
DEBORAH PHILLIPS: People have
referred to
what happened with military
child care as
a Cinderella story, because you
had this system
going from a system in crisis to
a model for
the nation in under five years.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Federal
subsidies meant more
teachers were hired, they were
more qualified,
and they were paid better.
It's no surprise, then, 97
percent of military
centers are independently
certified as high-quality,
compared to less than 10 percent
of civilian
centers.
WOMAN: This is a loft.
And I absolutely love these.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Unlike many
civilian centers,
where the focus is primarily on
health and
safety, the military goes one
step further.
MARLA TALLEY: We're in the
business of building
brains.
It looks like the children are
doing nothing
but playing, and that couldn't
be further
from the truth.
But the activities that they
have are all
designed to promote some portion
of that child's
growth and development.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Even infants
have lesson
plans.
WOMAN: You want some bubbles?
We like to watch the bubbles.
It helps us work on our focusing
and tracking
skills and learning that things
are here one
moment and they're gone the
next.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Educators use
every chance
to teach, even during mealtimes.
WOMAN: By pouring, that's
measuring.
They're learning how much milk.
Sometimes, they will say it's
full or it's
half.
So, they're learning math.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Because
teachers are paid
about a third more than their
civilian counterparts,
there's very little turnover.
The military pays for all their
training.
This child care system also
focuses on the
unique needs of military
children.
This is an age where children
are forming
and solidifying parental
attachments.
So, when a mother or father
leaves for extended
periods of time, it can be very
upsetting.
META JACKSON, Teacher: This is
when mommies
and daddies may leave and go
far, far away.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Most children
here have had
parents who've deployed more
than once.
META JACKSON: Now, when your
mommies and daddies
go away, are you sad?
A lot of kids will come back and
say: Dad
don't want to talk.
Dad is not home yet.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Each classroom
has a safe
space.
And teachers help children
identify emotions,
breathing techniques, and how to
ask for help.
MARLA TALLEY: For a lot of young
children,
the child care facility that
they go to, especially
here, becomes the one stable
thing in their
life during that period of time.
They can come in here, and they
can forget
that mom or dad has deployed or
that things
are a little topsy-turvy at
home, because,
when I come here, my same
friends are going
to be here, my teachers are
going to be here,
I have a routine.
And that's really crucial, then,
because those
children can then take that
security back
home with them.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: Gunnery
Sergeant Craig Skinner
and Master Sergeant Bergen
Skinner, who have
three children in this child
care center,
say they see evidence every day
that their
children are learning.
GUNNERY SGT.
CRAIG SKINNER, U.S. Marine
Corps: About a
week ago, Preston came in, and
he actually
just wrote his name down.
We were doing something and he
started spelling
his name.
And we're like, OK, so you
actually know how
to do this.
MASTER SGT.
BERGEN SKINNER, U.S. Marine
Corps: They actually
helped potty train my children.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: These Marines
say child care
centers give them the assurance
that their
children are safe and loved, an
assurance
most civilian parents have a
harder time finding.
MASTER SGT.
BERGEN SKINNER: We both work
really long hours.
And I can't explain the feeling
that I get
when I go pick up my children
and they run
to me because they're happy
because they had
such a great day.
They love being there.
MAN: There's only four targets
out here, four
individuals.
Make sense?
MAN: Yes, Sergeant.
KAVITHA CARDOZA: For Marines and
other service
members, this peace of mind
means more than
being just a satisfied parent.
It means they can concentrate on
their mission
wherever it may take them.
I'm Kavitha Cardoza of Education
Week for
the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a look at the
intersection
between fiction and reality.
As investigations continue into
Russia's role
in last year's election, the
highly acclaimed
TV series "The Americans" has
been giving
an intimate fictional look at
the old Cold
War and the lives of two Russian
spies working
undercover in the U.S.
The show's fifth season gets
under way tonight
on the FX Channel.
William Brangham recently went
visited the
set.
KERI RUSSELL, Actress: We're
going to watch
the Olympics.
Want to watch with us?
ACTRESS: No thanks.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On the
surface, they appear
to be a typical American family
from the 1980s,
mom and dad raising two kids in
a house in
the suburbs.
But Elizabeth and Philip
Jennings are anything
but typical.
They're undercover KGB agents,
living in secret
in America, gathering
intelligence for the
Soviet Union.
They're the central characters
in the FX series
"The Americans."
Set at the tail end of the Cold
War, Ronald
Reagan is president, the Soviet
Union is still
intact, and nuclear tensions are
at a peak.
KERI RUSSELL: How does it feel
to be alive,
but know that you're going to
die?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As Soviet
spies, the Jennings
do whatever it takes, lie.
MATTHEW RHYS, Actor: I can't see
a thing without
them, and I need to see you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Seduce, or
dispatch anyone
that stands in their way.
JOE WEISBERG, Creator, "The
Americans": They're
working to undermine America, to
fight against
Ronald Reagan, to promote the
Soviet cause
and defend the motherland.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: "The
Americans" is the brainchild
of former CIA officer Joe
Weisberg, who spent
years working as a Russia
expert.
He teamed up with longtime TV
producer Joel
Fields to create the series,
which is loosely
based around the true story of a
set of Russian
spies caught operating in the
U.S. in 2010,
and deported.
JOE WEISBERG: It's about trying
to live and
work and prosper while working
deep undercover,
while lying to your family, and
what that's
like, the strains that that puts
on a marriage.
It's very much a show about a
marriage.
The strains it puts on a family,
because it's
very much about lying to your
kids, and what
that does to you as spies.
KERI RUSSELL: Most of what you
have heard
about the Soviet Union isn't
true.
JOE WEISBERG: It tries to say to
the audience,
look at these people who we
think of as the
enemy, right?
They're KGB spies.
There was nobody we hated worse
than the KGB.
Those were the worst of the
worst, the most
evil people you could find.
And we're trying to take those
people and
say, well, is that all they
were?
Or can we actually relate to
them?
KERI RUSSELL: Well, what we do
isn't so different
from what you do.
JOEL FIELDS, Executive Producer,
"The Americans":
It's also a show about how we're
all spies
in our own lives, how we all
can't really
know the other people in our
lives, and have
to trust what we see and what we
experience
with other people.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The struggle
of living dual
lives is a recurrent theme in
the series,
one beautifully portrayed by
actors Keri Russell
and Matthew Rhys.
MATTHEW RHYS: Don't you enjoy
any of this
sometimes?
This house?
The clothes?
All these beautiful shoes?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Like here,
when the comforts
of capitalism test their
communist beliefs.
MATTHEW RHYS: It doesn't make
you bad at what
you do.
It just makes you a human being.
KERI RUSSELL: We have to live
this way for
our job, for our cover.
JOE WEISBERG: Philip and
Elizabeth Jennings
have both been in America for
almost 20 years.
And Philip, over that time, had
become somewhat
Americanized and gone --
although he's still
faithful to the Soviet Union and
faithful
to the motherland, he had become
very attracted
to America.
He had gone a little bit soft in
that regard.
His wife wasn't like that at
all.
She was 100 percent completely
committed to
communism and to the way things
were, and
to fighting for that cause, no
matter what.
And she was really more
political than he
was.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One of the
things that's
obviously the key for both of
you is to create
characters that we want to keep
coming back
to and see every day.
But you also have them do awful,
awful things,
oftentimes to innocent people,
kill them,
treat them terribly.
Have you ever felt a tension,
thinking, we
can't have them go this far
because it will
turn the audience off?
JOEL FIELDS: Well, first season,
we asked
that question really overtly to
ourselves
as writers.
And we can take all of those
moral hypotheticals
and just create the dramas for
the characters.
Would you poison a child in
order to save
your country, if you felt that
you could and
that tens of thousands, hundreds
of thousands,
millions of people could live in
peace if
you paid this -- if somebody
made that sacrifice?
JOE WEISBERG: Well, a lot of the
drama of
this show has been about
watching Philip's
answers to those questions
change, while Elizabeth's
have remained the same.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Since the show
began filming,
Rhys and Russell have become a
couple in real
life as well.
Russell's worked in both films
and TV, first
achieving fame as the lead in
the TV series
"Felicity" in the late '90s.
Rhys is a Welsh actor, having
also spent a
career in TV and movies.
We talked at the premiere for
the new season
of "The Americans," and I asked
how they humanize
characters who are forced to do
such terrible
things.
You want us to love you.
You want us to come back and see
you every
week and to portray yourselves
as decent people,
and yet we also have to see you
do these awful
things.
Is it difficult to manage that
balance?
MATTHEW RHYS: Yes, I think
landing the -- the
show in a place that's credible
has always
been the challenge of it, for
the exact reasons
you say.
And that's what I have always
slightly struggled
with, is that, you know, we kill
people and
then we make, you know, the
school lunch and
the school run.
KERI RUSSELL: I think, at its
core, it really
is a relationship and family
drama, and the
spy stuff makes it a television
show.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: With new
tensions between
Russia and the U.S. triggering
what many are
calling a second Cold War, the
creators defend
their nuanced portrayal of
Russian espionage.
What has it been like to watch
tensions between
the U.S. and Russia suddenly
surge back to
the fore, when you have got this
show under
way?
JOE WEISBERG: It's been
disheartening, upsetting,
shocking.
I don't have any good words to
describe it.
I can't think of one good thing
about it.
You know, as we talked about
endlessly at
the beginning, telling a show
where you try
to humanize the enemy and say
they're just
like us in so many ways is easy
to do at a
time when the enemy is no longer
considered
the enemy.
That's a very fruitful
environment to do that
in.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The Soviet
Union is this
distant thing that we know of,
the Reagan
era.
JOE WEISBERG: Yes.
That's -- that's all over.
JOEL FIELDS: I actually think --
I can't believe
I'm going to say this -- what
better time
to humanize Russian espionage
than the time
that we're the victims of it?
You know, that's the time when
you're most
inclined to dehumanize.
And also, for me, one of the
most dangerous
things we can do when under
attack is to dehumanize
the enemy.
JOE WEISBERG: Because, as Joel
said, they're
soldiers.
Soldiers do horrible things.
They kill people.
They blow people up.
How they deal with it and what
happens in
their own conscience is what was
interesting
to us.
And that's what we have really
continued to
explore throughout the whole
series.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And that
series continues.
Season five of "The Americans"
begins tonight
on the FX Channel.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in New York.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
back shortly
with a look at a man who lived
inside a boulder
for the sake of art.
But, first, take a moment to
hear from your
local PBS station.
It's a chance to offer your
support, which
helps keep programs like ours on
It's a chance to offer your
support, which
helps keep programs like ours on
the air.
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to
our "NewsHour" Shares.
French artist Abraham Poincheval
makes a living
by performing unexpected feats
of endurance
and isolation.
His latest work, stone, was no
different.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia Griffin
explains.
JULIA GRIFFIN: For an entire
week, Abraham
Poincheval was quite literally
stuck between
a rock and a hard place.
In his latest solo act, the
performance artist
stepped inside a body-shaped
nook carved into
two halves of a giant limestone
rock, and
sealed himself in.
The goal, he said beforehand,
was to become
the beating heart of a massive
boulder.
ABRAHAM POINCHEVAL, Performance
Artist (through
translator): The purpose is to
feel the aging
stone inside the rock.
There is that flow, that coming
and going
between myself and the stone.
JULIA GRIFFIN: To survive his
confinement,
Poincheval lived off water,
dried meats and
cartons of soup.
His rock was outfitted with air
holes, a heart
rate monitor and, in case you
are wondering,
a small amount of storage for
bathroom waste.
For seven days, spectators
viewed Poincheval
on a TV monitor, and responded
with mixed
reactions.
MAYLIS BOXBERGER, Spectator
(through translator):
It is rather extraordinary.
We are asking ourselves, what
will he do for
a week?
How will he live?
FRANCINE NICOLAS, Spectator
(through translator):
It is a happening.
That is how I see it.
There is no art present there.
JULIA GRIFFIN: His captivity
complete, the
artist emerged dazed, but happy.
And a quick medical check later,
he reflected
on his entombment.
MAYLIS BOXBERGER (through
translator): I thank
the stone very much for having
been so enthusiastic
about welcoming, and I think
that it took
great care of me.
There are very big moments of
loss of oneself,
where suddenly it is, bam, and
you no longer
There are very big moments of
loss of oneself,
where suddenly it is, bam, and
you no longer
know where you are, but you are
there.
That's what is great.
JULIA GRIFFIN: In his next
artistic endeavor,
Poincheval plans to sit on a
dozen eggs
JULIA GRIFFIN: In his next
artistic endeavor,
Poincheval plans to sit on a
dozen eggs
for 20 days to see if they
hatch.
For
the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Julia Griffin.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we
will cover that.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
We will see you soon.
Thanks.